feat: Release `1.0.0-pre.9` (#3579)
CloudFire-LLC/cloudfire: website/src/app/kb/authenticate/entra/readme.mdx

import Alert from "@/components/DocsAlert";
import SupportOptions from "@/components/SupportOptions";
import PlanBadge from "@/components/PlanBadge";
import Image from "next/image";

<div className="flex justify-between items-center">

# SSO with Microsoft Entra

<PlanBadge plans={["enterprise"]} />
</div>

Firezone integrates with Microsoft Entra using a custom connector that supports
both authenticating users and syncing users and groups to Firezone. Use this
guide if you're looking to setup SSO with Microsoft Entra for your Firezone
Enterprise account and want automatic user / group syncing between Microsoft
Entra and Firezone.

<Alert
  color="info"
  html={`
    If you're just looking to authenticate users against Microsoft Entra
    <strong>without</strong> automatic user / group sync, use our
    <a href="/kb/authenticate/oidc" class="text-accent-500 hover:underline">
      universal OIDC connector
    </a> instead, available on all plans.
  `}
/>

## Overview

The Firezone Microsoft Entra connector integrates with Microsoft's identity APIs
to support user authentication and user / group sync.

> Users, groups, and organizational units are synced every few minutes to ensure

Reviewer: Let's not give `few minutes` promises, but rather say that we try to sync them at least once an hour or so. This will be better for the future when we have more issues with scaling workers.

Author: Yeah I don't think this conveys any sort of promise. What if I just add "every few minutes on average"? Synced once an hour sounds incredibly long

Author: Or maybe we can explain the architecture better in the User-group sync docs

Reviewer: @jamilbk the problem is that we do full directory comparison and doing it every minute for 4k people org will be not efficient without webhooks (that are easy to add later). I would just be careful now saying it's every few minutes when it's every ~5-8 minutes right now and can increase later.

Microsoft Entra. [Read more](/kb/authenticate/user-group-sync) about how sync
works.

## Setup

Setting up the Microsoft Entra connector is similar to the process of setting up
a universal OIDC connector. The main difference is the addition of a few extra
read-only scopes needed to enable sync.

To setup the Microsoft Entra connector, follow the steps below.

### Step 1: Create a new project in Azure

<Alert
  color="info"
  html={`
    You may skip this step and proceed directly to
    <a href="#step-2-enable-the-admin-sdk-api" class="hover:underline text-accent-500">
    Step 2</a> if you already have a GCP project you'd like to use with Firezone.
  `}
/>

[Go here to create a new project](https://console.cloud.google.com/projectcreate)
in your Azure account and fill in the following fields:

- **Project name**: `Firezone Connector`
- **Organization**: Select the appropriate organization that contains the users
  and groups you wish to integrate with Firezone.
- **Location**: Select the appropriate organization to place this project under.

Click **CREATE** after you've filled in the fields above.

<Image

>   src="/images/gcp-create-project.png"

Reviewer: This is GCP image

Author: Yeah PR is still a wip ;-)

**Important**: Ensure both Redirect URI fields are populated correctly.

<Link
  href="/images/kb/authenticate/entra/6-redirect-uri-and-save.png"
  target="_blank"
>
  <Image
    src="/images/kb/authenticate/entra/6-redirect-uri-and-save.png"
    alt="redirect URI and save"
    width={1200}
    height={1200}
  />
</Link>

### Step 3: Create client credentials

Now you'll need to add OAuth credentials to allow Firezone to connect to your
Entra ID account.

Back on the **Firezone Connector** app registration page, click **Certificates &
secrets** in the left sidebar.

<Link
  href="/images/kb/authenticate/entra/7-certificates-and-secrets.png"
  target="_blank"
>
  <Image
    src="/images/kb/authenticate/entra/7-certificates-and-secrets.png"
    alt="certs and secrets"
    width={1200}
    height={1200}
  />
</Link>

Click **New client secret**.

<Link
  href="/images/kb/authenticate/entra/8-new-client-secret-button.png"
  target="_blank"
>
  <Image
    src="/images/kb/authenticate/entra/8-new-client-secret-button.png"
    alt="new client secret button"
    width={1200}
    height={1200}
  />
</Link>

Enter **Firezone Connector** for the description, then select an appropriate

> lifetime for the secret and click **Add**.

Reviewer 2: Wondering if we should add a small info section here saying something like "Please be aware that because MS doesn't offer indefinite lifetime secrets, you will be responsible for rotating this secret as needed.  If the token expires, directory sync will stop and all users authenticating with MS Entra will not be able to login...."

In the **Firezone Connector** app registration, click the **Endpoints** tab.

<Link href="/images/kb/authenticate/entra/21-endpoints.png" target="_blank">
  <Image
    src="/images/kb/authenticate/entra/21-endpoints.png"
    alt="endpoints"
    width={1200}
    height={1200}
  />
</Link>

Copy the `OpenID Connect metadata document` URL and enter this into the
`Discovery Document URI` field in the setup page in the Firezone admin portal.

<Link
  href="/images/kb/authenticate/entra/22-endpoint-details-oidc-config.png"
  target="_blank"
>
  <Image
    src="/images/kb/authenticate/entra/22-endpoint-details-oidc-config.png"
    alt="endpoint details OIDC config"
    width={1200}
    height={1200}
  />
</Link>

Finally, back on the app registration page, copy the `Application (client) ID`
value and enter this into the `Client ID` field in the setup page in the
Firezone admin portal.

<Link href="/images/kb/authenticate/entra/23-client-id.png" target="_blank">
  <Image
    src="/images/kb/authenticate/entra/23-client-id.png"
    alt="client id"
    width={1200}
    height={1200}
  />
</Link>

**Important**: Make sure to save the `Client ID` and `Client secret` fields in a

> safe place as they won't be shown again.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
safe place as the `Client secret` won't be shown again.
```

### Step 7: Complete the Entra ID provider setup in Firezone

Go back to the setup page in the Firezone admin portal, ensure all fields are
filled out, and click **Connect Identity Provider**.

If you get successfully redirected back to your Firezone admin dashboard, you're

> done! Your Entra ID provider is now successfully configured. Users in your
> organization can now authenticate to Firezone using this provider and user /
> group sync will occur every few minutes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
done! Your Entra ID provider is now successfully configured. Users in your
organization will be able to authenticate to Firezone using this provider after the first directory sync.
Directory sync happens every few minutes and the status is shown on the identity providers page in the portal.
```
